In this video we're going to take a close look at our acquisition reports in Google Analytics.
And if you're a marketer you're going to love this because there are awkward acquisition reports allows
us to compare the performance of different marketing channels and enables us to really discover which
marketing channel is performing the best.
And then we can maybe focus in on that in order to grow our business.
So to get started come across into this side bar and let's take a look at the source media report that
when this report you're going to see the source of traffic.
So the individual Web site like Google dot com YouTube dot com.
And then the medium is really the way that they came from that web site to our site so we can see here
that they arrive organically.
So maybe they just clicked on a search results on Google dot com and that is different to maybe arriving.
If I had another row here through CPC or cost per click so that would have been a night.
So in this scenario we've got people arriving organically which makes up the largest segments of our
users to the site over the date range that we've set.
But they can also arrive via us here.
So that's why there is a distinction not only between the source of the traffic but all the also the
medium of the traffic as well.
And that's important to know because we could be sending users from one source in multiple different
ways organically through content that we create or via advertisements.
So if we look at this data table we can see really the marketing channels that are sending us the most
amount of users over our day range.
And as we said we can see that a lot of them 36 percent of them are coming through Google organic.
So that means that are doing a pretty good job on our SEO but users know alone is not necessarily the
best indicator of the quality of that traffic and we really want to have quality traffic that is resulting
in conversions for the goals that we've set up and that could be sign ups to an email list or it could
be checked Garretts from our online store.
A great indicator of the quality of our traffic is balance Maret.
So if we come across to the site comparison feature here we have all the sources and mediums of our
traffic and we can really compare the balance rate of these sources of traffic compared to the side
average.
And this will really give us that indication of the quality of the traffic so we can see here from this
particular source and medium that the balance rate is very high compared to the site average.
So maybe we'd want to have a look at how people are coming from that from that web site to make sure
that they're landing on pages that might be more relevant to them.
For example here looking at our Google organic we can see that people coming organically from the search
engines are landing on very relevant pages because you can see that there is a very low bounce rate
compared to the side average as well as looking at the balance rate as an indicator.
If youve got your goals set up you can actually look at the contribution to actual revenue and that
you set up here so as well as maybe go completions if youve got revenue set up then you can see the
actual contribution of each channel to the revenue thats been driven over the last seven days or the
timeframe that you've set up here now as well as looking at the source medium report we can actually
go in and look at our referrals report to see those exact sites that have referred us traffic or sent
visitors from their web site to our Web site.
And if we click in here into the source we can actually see the individual pages on that Web site that
are sending those traffic which is really interesting to know because we know exactly where they have
linked to our Web site and if we want to even see which page on our Web site they are linking to we
can add a secondary dimension of a landing page and so now what we can see in this report is that they're
linking from this page on their Web site to this page on our Web site and we can really see the connection
that they made and maybe we could encourage them to do more of that or make sure that we are really
have the best page there that we could for that particular link that they're sending over to us.
So it's just really interesting to know where they're actually sending us traffic from and to so that
we can continue to try and develop more of those types of referrals from other web sites or from that
individual site.
Now looking up our acquisition overview report we can get a high level summary of really the different
groupings of the traffic so we can see organic search direct referral social affiliates paid search
and display and this gives us that high level overview on pie chart of this place in our different channel
groupings.
So what we would maybe want to ask ourselves and have a quick glance at is okay we're getting a lot
of traffic from organic search.
Maybe we should continue to do that.
And really what we want to ask ourselves is based on the investment that we're putting into these channels
which one is paying off the best maybe we've got a full time person on social and that's not leading
to a lot of traffic or sales maybe we might reduce that and put some more working on organic search
if that is working well so that you know how to get insights out of your acquisition reports maybe come
in to your source media report and have a look at the quality of your traffic.
By doing that side comparison based on the balance rate.